# individual-project-sandro729
individual-project-sandro729 created by GitHub Classroom

Virtual Reality Design: Individual Project
     Despite our initial exposure to virtual reality’s entertainment value, when we first learned about the individual project, I had hoped to create a user-friendly environment that would be beneficial to a wide audience. Having spent approximately four hours round-trip per day commuting to school in Manhattan from home in Long Island, I originally brainstormed an “empathy VR” that could help users conquer their fears of new-found independence and claustrophobia by simulating the navigation of crowded New York City streets. Though this is still on the back-burner, I pivoted to a simpler, more practical environment because of my limited computer-science skillset.
     With the help of Tinkercad and free texture assets from Unity, I made a digital version of the Tower of Hanoi, a mathematical puzzle consisting of three rods attached to a board and a number of variously-sized disks arranged in ascending order on the left-most rod. The user must transfer the entire stack to the right-most rod by moving only one disk at a time and placing each on an empty rod or on top of a disk of larger diameter. The objective is to solve the Tower using a minimum number of moves, proven to be (2n – 1) where n is the number of disks and no further rules are given. The directions can be made more elaborate – for example, switching disks only between adjacent pegs or starting with disks on all different pegs - if the user requires a challenge.
     Neuropsychologists often use the Tower of Hanoi to evaluate frontal lobe deficits and diagnose impairments such as Alzheimer’s Disease, a cause dear to my heart. Last March, my grandfather succumbed to the disease shortly after I returned to campus from spring break. I regretfully could not attend his funeral and never got a chance to say goodbye. We were very close, and I looked up to him because of his intelligence, humor, probity, and immigrant success story. Since his passing, I have looked for ways to give back in his name and help those who suffer as he had. 
     In his last months, my grandfather could not speak or perform mundane tasks and was essentially bedridden. Having the Tower of Hanoi in virtual reality addresses these issues common to Alzheimer’s patients. Instead of neuropsychologists using it solely as a diagnosis tool, this is meant for the patient’s amusement. The process of solving the puzzle encourages the patient to think critically and exercise a mind that would otherwise atrophy, while the use of handheld controllers helps them practice motor function and keep blood circulating. So far, there is one scene – a flat outdoor “sandbox” with an oversized version of the Tower of Hanoi that recalls a childhood vigor. I included one of my grandfather’s favorite songs as ambient background to stimulate the mind further. With a wider computer-science skillset, I hope to add scenes that cater to individual patients, more songs, and a script that properly counts the number of moves.
     I intentionally made this project build relatively simple, drawing upon observations from some of my final interactions with my grandfather. One of his favorite pastimes was watching Juventus and other Italian soccer teams. When we visited him, I would often play FIFA on the Xbox to entertain him since soccer is rarely televised. Because of both his deteriorating mental state and FIFA’s high-quality graphics, my grandfather always thought the games were being played live. While the virtual reality Tower of Hanoi can provide patients with a “change of scenery” and can eventually be configured to include a cooperative “multi-player” mode, an overly-complicated environment such as that in FIFA could confuse the patient, just any user can become disoriented after multiple hours of “gameplay.”
     I hope to combine the skills I have acquired in this class with those I will obtain through future computer-science studies to take this project base to the next level.
